---
layout: post
title: "Coding in the zone?"
date: 2014-07-08
---

While reading through Clean Coder I found an sub-chapter that really resonated with me. Martin mentions a concept called "the Zone." The zone is a period of time in which you write a ton of code that seems to be of high quality; it compiles, and seems to be behaving as you intended. Realistically a lot of my most rewarding coding sessions have been while in the zone. Much to my surprise Martin suggests avoiding this period of time and puts forth some suggestions how to keep a steady pace rather than code in the zone. 

While writing code for projects throughout university, I rarely had deadlines that were challenging to meet. As a result I'd usually code when I was in the perfect mood and ready to hammer something out. I'd fill out the majority of the requirements in one session, test a bit, and come back a later or within the next couple days to fix or complete the problem. 

Bob goes onto mention that it is easy to loose the big picture while coding in the zone. You trade attention to detail for speed. As a result code that is written in the zone is harder to maintain and usually requires more time. While writing code for my professors, I didn't always realize that I was getting into a habit of creating code that was hard to maintain after the initial effort. 

This is something I'm going to have to get used to. Bob suggests deliberately breaking your focus if you feel like you are getting into the "zone." He claims it'd be best to take a break or find a pair to keep you on track. 

The problem is you get to a point where you expect to get into the zone, some days it just doesn't come. On those days it'd be best to at least make steady progress rather than get frustrated. Being able to turn away from the "zone" requires discipline. 

Some benefits I can imagine would be working at a more steady and consistent pace. In turn, the amount of time something will take you would be more predictable resulting in more accurate estimations. I'm proud of myself when I get a ton done in a day but I also get discouraged when I don't get much done on others. Attempting to get things done at a more consistent pace would make it easier to be satisfied with the work I can reasonably complete in the day. And hopefully make that work a bit more structured as well! 