---
layout: post
title: "Should we standardize our terminal workflow?"
date: 2014-10-27
---

The past month or so I've been doing quite a bit of pairing on footprints and warehouse. It really is helpful to have a pair. Everything that gets put down has a second set of eyes and opinions on how something should be. This helps the product of pairs turn out better from the get-go. However, there is one thing that makes pairing a little less than ideal in my opinion. While the majority of my co workers use vim and tmux, nobody seems to use the same set of plugins or hotkeys. 

Some examples of this are as follows. I switch between the most recently file using `ctrl-^` but one of my pairs has this bound to `,,` another coworker has his tmux leader key bound to `ctrl-q` whereas mine is bound to `ctrl-a`. While these are little differences, its definitely not as comfortable to work on someone else's machine and it is frustrating to be less productive simply because of the way your pair has configured their vimrc file! I've noticed this while working an even split with another coworker, when primarily driving, and while primarily the observer. 

While this may be unrealistic, it would be nice if we had an "8th Light" standard keyboard/plugin layout. It seems as if a large portion of people learn to use vim during their apprenticeship and it'd be nice if how we setup our dotfiles initially was fluid with the rest of my coworkers. For people that prefer their setup, a tool such as [GNU Stow](http://brandon.invergo.net/news/2012-05-26-using-gnu-stow-to-manage-your-dotfiles.html) can be used to quickly switch between two configurations. 

I believe standardizing a terminal workflow could help productivity and provide a more fluid workflow for pairs. 