---
layout: post
title: "Switching contexts."
date: 2014-09-09
---

Last week I expected to be working on footprints, one of our internal projects. However due to our requirements we've had to dig into a couple other code bases. In addition to functionality that needed to be added to footprints, we had to edit the 8th Light website as well as warehouse. 

Late last week we made some changes to the 8th Light website to filter out people applying for positions we are not currently offering. The website is written in Clojure. These past two days we've been working on Ruby modifying both footprints and the warehouse-ruby-client. While both projects are Ruby, warehouse was primarily written by one craftsman, my mentor. Adding functionality was not so challenging and took us a short period of time. However footprints has been worked on by dozens of apprentices. This has been a bit more challenging. Although we are trying to follow the conventions that are present, they can be a bit inconsistent at times. Different people implement functionality as they see fit and as a result its hard to figure out exactly what convention we should be using. 

Next week were going to have to make some larger changes to warehouse. Hopefully by the end of this week we'll have committed to working with footprints in a specific way that will make future additions simpler! For now were going to finish up the implementation we've started and get our features completed to the best of our abilities. Anyway its cool to get to work on a variety of our internal tools and I'm glad to have the opportunity! 