---
layout: post
title: "JRuby"
date: 2014-08-20
---

These past couple days I've been working on integrating my Ruby Tic Tac Toe into my JavaServer. I've been using the JRuby programming language to accomplish this. A Ruby program is compatible with JRuby and requires little to no modification. Through JRuby Java programs can utilize Ruby classes and Ruby can utilize Java utilities. 

I was hoping I'd be able to utilize maven to manage all my tests and builds. Unfortunately it turned out that the Maven RSpec plugin with documentation was incredibly outdated (Last updated in 2008 or 2009). After spending quite a few hours on that, I opted to simply test each part of the program individually. The documentation for JRuby is sparse. It seems like oftentimes JRuby is used to simply run Ruby on Rails on the JVM. As a result, the functionality allowing Ruby source code execution in Java is a bit less user friendly, a bit inconsistent, and incredibly verbose.

{% highlight Ruby %}
include Java
require './jars/JavaServer.jar'

Java::Application::runLoop(ARGV.to_java(:string))
{% endhighlight %}

Here I am importing my server, and then passing command line arguments from Ruby. The method call follows Ruby syntax and provides a function `to_java(:type)` to deal with Java's strict type system. 

{% highlight Java %}
import org.jruby.embed.PathType;
import org.jruby.embed.ScriptingContainer;

...

public String board() {
    return container.callMethod(object, "show_board", String.class);
}

public void move(String location) {
    container.callMethod(object, "human_move", "x", location);
}
{% endhighlight %}

After approximately a dozen lines of setup, you wind up having a container object that holds your Ruby class. From this point forward you can utilize the `callMethod` function to make calls on that class. Some oddities. I haven't been able to figure out what the variable `object` is doing. The API labels that parameter as receiver, however the results of execution are the same if you simply call `new Object()` each Ruby method call. Another oddity is that the parameters are inconsistent. In the first method, `callMethod` wants a return type, denoted by `String.class`. However, the main function call with multiple parameters does not require a return type. In this case I was dealing with a void method and there weren't any problems, but I'm curious what the rationale is! 

As a warning, creating a JRuby container and loading the paths into it is a slow process. This slowed me down a bit and eventually prompted me to change the point in which I initiate my Java class that holds and mutates my Ruby TTT interface. 

After the initial hurdles, my progress has been pretty steady. Getting everything setup has been my biggest problem so far. 