---
layout: post
title: "LinuxCon!"
date: 2014-08-22
---

Yesterday I was able to spend a day at LinuxCon North America. I was able to to attend five workshops. Got to spend some time chatting with representatives and attendees from both large and small companies. Got lots of promotional materials. I was able to catch up with some old friends and make some new ones. Overall it was a great time and I'm glad I got the opportunity to go. 

The conference was pretty encompassing and did not focus strictly on development. The workshops focused on everything to development, to system and database administration, to business and marketing. The most relevant workshop I attended and my favorite talk was by a senior engineer from Docker. His talk was titled "Killer Bugs From Outer space." The talk bounced back and forth between different bugs he had to deal with over his years. I plan on doing a more in depth post on his talk in the near future. I watched an additional workshop from a Docker employee that were less relevant. A workshop about how Google uses containers in their workload. One talk on cool projects that have been done with the raspberry pi (I have an extra one of these sitting at home, so I was looking for some inspiration). A talk by a MariaDB employee on the status of database replication in MySQL and MariaDB. 

In addition I was able to make some connections with other developers and people in the industry. I had a discussion about the Perl 5 - 6 mess. I met a partner from a company that does open source software consulting whose organization seemed not too different than our own here at 8th Light. I met at least a dozen people that were familiar with our company. Within the first half hour at the conference a Github employee had a conversation with me about Uncle Bob whom he had met at a ruby conference and had linked up with him afterwards. The people I met that were familiar with our company were really interested in how our apprenticeship program was structured and what kind of work I was doing.

This was the first conference I had attended and it was a great time. I'm looking forward to being able to attend more in the future. 